Musnad Bhuiyan
February 17, 2021
CISC 3140 - Design & Implementation Web Application (Lecture)
Prof. Katherine Chuang

	The goal our group set out as the objective was to create an application. We decided to pick a project that would be beneficial to the public. After going through potential ideas, our group eventually settled on the idea of a universal ATM locater. The application will have access to public APIs to locate ATMs and label them accordingly to their affiliated bank. It also has the option to filter out ATMs based on their financial institution and usage fee if they are not affiliated with your bank. 
	When discussing the front-end side of implementation, we talked about the layout of the user interface, cross-platform compatibility, responsive web design, and so on. When we got to the back-end side, we started by choosing what hosting service we would use for the application. Cloud hosting was the first option because it is easier for users to access. Hybrid was another option we discussed for cases where budget, security, and efficiency might be a concern. We also talked about the level of scalability and high availability that we intended to take with the project. The details on the database used, the number of VMs, server/application VMs, and security measures were not discussed but were in mind during our conversation.
	We have gone through several ideas, such as applications to search for places to throw out items like batteries, electronics, and other electronic waste, locate public bathrooms and parking lots, etc. For the electronic waste disposal locater, we went through a similar procedure for the ATM locator in finding a solution to our issues. It required having data fed into it through public APIs. Instead of filtering based on the companies, the application would display the type of material that each location processes and categorize them with that in mind. The public bathroom and parking lot locators were also discussed in the same procedure as they are fundamentally similar in function.
	During the group sessions we had for lab one, I have learned many things about collaboration within large groups as well as its pros and cons. While having more people can be hectic in a workplace, proper organization of the group can lead to a fluid and productive environment. My experience working with this group in this field of study has proven to be more beneficial when compared to individual performance. While delving into a project alone, a person is limited to their own views and insights. On the other hand, groups make up for each other's mistakes and push one another to do better in a well-organized environment.
	Group members communicated their ideas and opinions through their preferred method of communication. While there were many who voiced their thoughts, there were others who typed out their thoughts instead. It helped to reduce the clutter in vocal conversations when having both modes of contact available. The conversation shifted based on the ideas that were mentioned and went smoothly overall. The messages also served as reminders to refer back to previously mentioned ideas, so that we did not have to repeat ourselves and continue building on existing ideas. The idea to split up into groups was mentioned, but we mostly conversed as a single group. Since we are not experts in the fields we were to split up into, it was more practical to work as one group and give our insights where needed. If we were to split up into groups, we would designate members to a front-end and back-end implementation. I believe that splitting would have been the better approach in a setting where we had ample knowledge about the subject matter.
